releases: add release notes for v7.5.0 (#15250)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-7.5.0.md

Author: Preview: https://pingcap-docs-website-scaffold-git-v75-preview-oreoxmt.vercel.app/tidb/stable/release-7.5.0

---
title: TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.0.
---

# TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes

> Release date: November 23, 2023

Author: ```suggestion
Release date: November 28, 2023
```

TiDB version: 7.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.5.0#version-list)

TiDB 7.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), and [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 7.1.x to 7.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v7.2-to-v7.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 7.2.0 to 7.5.0:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Support for running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements in parallel</td>

>     <td>This feature allows for concurrent jobs to add multiple indexes for a single table. Previously, it would take the time of X plus the time of Y to execute two <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements simultaneously (X and Y). With this feature, adding two indexes X and Y in one SQL can be concurrently executed, and the total execution time of DDL is significantly reduced. Especially in scenarios with wide tables, internal test data shows that performance can be improved by up to 94%.</td>

Author: @ran-huang PTAL

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>
    <td>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global Sort</a> (experimental, introduced in v7.4.0)</td>
    <td>TiDB v7.2 introduced the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a>. For tasks that take advantage of this framework, v7.4 introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings. Operations like <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code> will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control</a> for background tasks (experimental, introduced in v7.4.0)</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control for background tasks </a> (experimental, introduced in v7.4.0)</td>
```

    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, bulk load with TiDB Lightning, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Resource groups support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental, introduced in v7.2.0)</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td>Resource control for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental, introduced in v7.2.0)</td>
```

| [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the sampling concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process. |
| [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) | Newly added | This variable is used by TiDB to merge statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. |
| [`tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the maximum value of GOGC that the GOGC Tuner can adjust. |
| [`tidb_gogc_tuner_min_value`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gogc_tuner_min_value-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the minimum value of GOGC that the GOGC Tuner can adjust.|

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | BR | [`--ignore-stats`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics) | Newly added | Controls whether to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the br command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`raftstore.region-compact-min-redundant-rows`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-compact-min-redundant-rows-new-in-v710) | Modified | Sets the number of redundant MVCC rows required to trigger RocksDB compaction. Starting from v7.5.0, this configuration item takes effect for the `"raft-kv"` storage engine. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.region-compact-redundant-rows-percent`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#region-compact-redundant-rows-percent-new-in-v710) | Modified | Sets the percentage of redundant MVCC rows required to trigger RocksDB compaction. Starting from v7.5.0, this configuration item takes effect for the `"raft-kv"` storage engine. |
| TiKV | [`raftstore.evict-cache-on-memory-ratio`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#evict-cache-on-memory-ratio-new-in-v750) | Newly added | When the memory usage of TiKV exceeds 90% of the system available memory, and the memory occupied by Raft entry cache exceeds the `evict-cache-on-memory-ratio` of used memory, TiKV evicts the Raft entry cache. |
| TiKV | [`memory.enable-heap-profiling`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable-heap-profiling-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls whether to enable Heap Profiling to track the memory usage of TiKV. |
| TiKV | [`memory.profiling-sample-per-bytes`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#profiling-sample-per-bytes-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Specifies the amount of data sampled by Heap Profiling each time, rounding up to the nearest power of 2. |
| BR | [`--ignore-stats`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics) | Newly added | Controls whether to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the br command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. |
```
@tonyxuqqi @hfxsd PTAL

Reviewer 2: LGTM

* The [incremental collection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.4/statistics#incremental-collection) feature (experimental) for statistics is deprecated in v7.5.0.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the concurrency model of merging GlobalStats: introduce [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) to enable simultaneous loading and merging of statistics, which speeds up the generation of GlobalStats on partitioned tables. Optimize the memory usage of merging GlobalStats to avoid OOM and reduce memory allocations. [#47219](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47219) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Optimize the `ANALYZE` process: introduce [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) to better control the `ANALYZE` concurrency to reduce resource consumption. Optimize the memory usage of `ANALYZE` to reduce memory allocation and avoid frequent GC by reusing some intermediate results. [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Optimize the use of placement policies: support configuring the range of a policy to global and improve the syntax support for common scenarios [#45384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45384) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the use of placement policies: support configuring the range of a policy to global and improve the syntax support for common scenarios. [#45384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45384) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
```

    - Fix the panic issue caused by table creation failure when replicating TiFlash replicas [#8217](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8217) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix the issue that PITR might skip restoring the `CREATE INDEX` DDL statement [#47482](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47482) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that the log backup might get stuck in some scenarios when backing up large wide tables [#15714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15714) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the performance issue caused by accessing NFS directories when replicating data to an object store sink [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the storage path is misspelled when `claim-check` is enabled [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

>         - Fix the issue that column selector is incorrect when `column filter` is enabled [#10042](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10042) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Author: ```suggestion
```

        - Fix the issue that TiCDC scheduling is not balanced in some cases [#9845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9845) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

>         - Fix the issue that callbacks might be lost when TiCDC replicates data to Kafka [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC might get stuck when replicating data to Kafka [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.0.
---

# TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.5.0#version-list)

TiDB 7.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 not only includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md), but also introduces the following key features and improvements:

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * 支持设置 TiDB 节点的服务范围，用于选择适用的 TiDB 节点来执行并行的 `ADD INDEX` 或 `IMPORT INTO` 任务 (GA) [#46453](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46453 )@[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->
> 
>     在资源密集型集群中，并行执行 `ADD INDEX` 或 `IMPORT INTO` 任务可能占用大量 TiDB 节点的资源，从而导致集群性能下降。从 v7.4.0 起，你可以通过变量 [tidb_service_scope](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-从-v740-版本开始引入) 控制 [TiDB 后端任务分布式框架](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md)下各 TiDB 节点的服务范围。你可以从现有 TiDB 节点中选择几个节点，或者对新增 TiDB 节点设置服务范围。所有并行执行的 `ADD INDEX` 和 `IMPORT INTO` 的任务只会运行在这些节点，避免对已有业务造成性能影响。在 v7.5.0 中，该功能正式 GA。
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-从-v740-版本开始引入).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Support selecting the TiDB nodes to parallelly execute the backend `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks of the distributed execution framework (GA) [#46453](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46453 )@[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->

    Executing `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel in a resource-intensive cluster can consume a large amount of TiDB node resources, which can lead to cluster performance degradation. Starting from v7.4.0, you can use the system variable [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) to control the service scope of each TiDB node under the [TiDB Backend Task Distributed Execution Framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). You can select several existing TiDB nodes or set the TiDB service scope for new TiDB nodes, and all parallel `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` tasks only run on these nodes. This mechanism can avoid performance impact on existing services. In v7.5.0, this feature is officially GA.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740).
```

### Performance

> * TiDB 后端任务分布式并行执行框架成为正式功能（GA），其中基于云存储的全局排序功能也成为正式功能，提升并行执行的 `ADD INDEX` 或 `IMPORT INTO` 任务的性能和稳定性 [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1580-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The TiDB backend task distributed execution framework becomes generally available (GA). The cloud storage-based global sort capability also becomes GA, improving the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel execution [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1580-->
```

> 

Reviewer 2: 只新增了 In v7.5.0, this feature is officially GA. 这句话。其他内容复用了 7.4 release notes 相关内容。

>     在 v7.4.0 以前，当用户执行分布式并行执行框架的 `ADD INDEX` 或 `IMPORT INTO` 任务时，TiDB 节点需要准备一块较大的本地磁盘，对编码后的索引 KV pairs 和表数据 KV pairs 进行排序。由于无法从全局角度进行排序，各个 TiDB 节点间以及节点内部导入的数据可能存在重叠情况。这会导致在将这些 KV pairs 导入到 TiKV 时，TiKV 需要频繁进行数据整理 (compaction)，降低了 `ADD INDEX` 或 `IMPORT INTO` 的性能和稳定性。
> 
>     v7.4.0 引入全局排序特性后，编码后的数据不再写入本地进行排序，而是写入云存储，并在云存储中进行全局排序。然后，TiDB 将经过全局排序的索引数据和表数据并行导入到 TiKV 中，从而提升了性能和稳定性。

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before v7.4.0, when executing tasks like `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` in the distributed parallel execution framework, each TiDB node needs to allocate a significant amount of local disk space for sorting encoded index KV pairs and table data KV pairs. However, due to the lack of global sorting capability, there might be overlapping data between different TiDB nodes and within each individual node during the process. As a result, TiKV has to constantly perform compaction operations while importing these KV pairs into its storage engine, which impacts the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`.

In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature. Instead of writing the encoded data locally and sorting it there, the data is now written to cloud storage for global sorting. Once sorted, both the indexed data and table data are imported into TiKV in parallel, thereby improving performance and stability.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

> * 提升了在一个 SQL 语句中同时添加多个索引的性能 [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1582-->
> 
>     在 v7.5.0 之前，用户在一个 SQL 语句里添加多个索引 (`ADD INDEX`) 时，其性能与使用多个独立的 SQL 语句添加多个索引的性能接近。从 v7.5.0 起，在一个 SQL 语句中添加多个索引的性能有了显著的变化，提升了 XX （等待最终测试结果数据），可大大缩短业务添加索引所需的时间。
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1582-->

    Before v7.5.0, when you add multiple indexes (`ADD INDEX`) in a single SQL statement, the performance was similar to adding multiple indexes using separate SQL statements. Starting from v7.5.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement is significantly improved, improving XX, which greatly reduces the time required for adding indexes.

```

### Reliability

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### Availability

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### SQL

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### DB operations

* DDL 任务支持暂停和恢复操作成为正式功能 (GA) [#issue](issue链接) @[contributor](https://github.com/xxx)

    在 v7.2.0 中引入的 DDL 任务的暂停和恢复功能成为正式功能 (GA)。该功能允许临时暂停资源密集型的 DDL 操作（如创建索引），以节省资源并最小化对在线流量的影响。当资源允许时，你可以无缝恢复 DDL 任务，而无需取消和重新开始。DDL 任务的暂停和恢复功能提高了资源利用率，改善了用户体验，并简化了 schema 变更过程。

    你可以通过如下 `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` 或 `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS` 语句暂停或者恢复多个 DDL 任务：

    ```sql
    ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-相关的命令介绍).

> * BR 支持备份和恢复统计信息 [#48008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48008) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!--**tw@hfxsd** 1437-->
> 
>     从 TiDB v7.5.0 开始，BR 备份工具开始支持备份和恢复数据库统计信息，引入了参数 `--ignore-stats`。当指定该参数值为 `false` 时，BR 备份工具支持备份和恢复数据库的列、索引、和表级别的统计信息，因此从备份中恢复的 TiDB 数据库不再需要手动运行统计信息收集任务，也无需等待自动收集任务的完成，从而简化了数据库维护工作，并提升了查询性能。
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#备份统计信息).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* BR supports backing up and restoring statistics [#48008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48008) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!--**tw@hfxsd** 1437-->

    Starting from TiDB v7.5.0, the `br` command-line tool introduces the `--ignore-stats` parameter to support backing up and restoring database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. In this case, you do not need to manually run the statistics collection task for the TiDB database restored from the backup, or wait for the completion of the automatic collection task. This feature simplifies the database maintenance work and improves the query performance.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics).
```

>     Starting from TiDB v7.5.0, the `br` command-line tool introduces the `--ignore-stats` parameter to support backing up and restoring database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. In this case, you do not need to manually run the statistics collection task for the TiDB database restored from the backup, or wait for the completion of the automatic collection task. This feature simplifies the database maintenance work and improves the query performance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Starting from TiDB v7.5.0, the `br` command-line tool introduces the `--ignore-stats` parameter to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. In this case, you do not need to manually run the statistics collection task for the TiDB database restored from the backup, or wait for the completion of the automatic collection task. This feature simplifies the database maintenance work and improves the query performance.
```

### Observability

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### Security

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### Data migration

* "IMPORT INTO" SQL 语句成为正式功能（GA） [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)<!--**tw@qiancai** 1579-->

    从 v7.4.0 起，你可以通过在 IMPORT INTO 的 CLOUD_STORAGE_URI 选项中指定编码后数据的云存储地址，开启[全局排序功能](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/tidb-global-sort.md)，提升性能和稳定性，该功能在 7.5 版本成为正式功能（GA）。

    For more information, see [documentation](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

> * Data Migration (DM) supports blocking incompatible (data-consistency-corrupting) DDL changes [#9692](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9692) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) <!--**tw@hfxsd** 1523-->
> 
>     在 v7.5.0 之前，使用 DM 的 Binlog Filter 功能只能迁移或过滤指定的 Event，且颗粒度比较粗，例如只能过滤 `ALTER` 这种大颗粒度的 DDL Event，这种方式在某些业务场景会受限，如业务允许 Add Column，但是不允许 Drop Column，但之前的版本都会被 `ALTER` Event 过滤。
> 
>     因此，v7.5.0 细化了支持的 DDL Event，如新增 `MODIFY COLUMN`（修改列数据类型）、`DROP COLUMN` 等会导致数据丢失、数据被截断、精度损失等问题的细粒度 DDL Event。你可以按需配置，同时还支持拦截 DDL，并报错提示，你可以及时介入手工处理，避免对下游的业务数据产生影响。
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-binlog-event-filter.md#参数解释).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Data Migration (DM) supports blocking incompatible (data-consistency-corrupting) DDL changes [#9692](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9692) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) <!--**tw@hfxsd** 1523-->

    Before v7.5.0, the DM Binlog Filter feature can only migrate or filter specified events, and the granularity is relatively coarse. For example, it can only filter large granularity of DDL events such as `ALTER`. This method is limited in some scenarios. For example, the application allows `ADD COLUMN` but not `DROP COLUMN`, but they be filtered by `ALTER` events in the previous version.

    Therefore, v7.5.0 has refined the supported DDL events, such as adding `MODIFY COLUMN` (modify the column data type), `DROP COLUMN`, and other fine-grained DDL events that will lead to data loss, truncation of data, and loss of precision. You can configure it as needed. It also supports interception of the DDL, and reports error alerts, so that you can intervene in time manually to avoid impacting downstream business data.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-binlog-event-filter.md#parameter-descriptions).
```

* Support real-time update of checkpoint for continuous data validation [issue号](链接) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1496-->

    Before v7.5.0, the [continuous data validation feature](/dm/dm-continuous-data-validation.md) ensures the data consistency during replication from DM to downstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to a few tens of seconds.

    With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for continuous data validation, you can now provide the binlog position from the upstream database. Once the continuous validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it immediately refreshes the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately updated checkpoint.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-continuous-data-validation.md#设置增量校验切换点).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-continuous-data-validation.md#set-the-cutover-point-for-continuous-data-validation).
```

>     Before v7.5.0, the DM Binlog Filter feature can only migrate or filter specified events, and the granularity is relatively coarse. For example, it can only filter large granularity of DDL events such as `ALTER`. This method is limited in some scenarios. For example, the application allows `ADD COLUMN` but not `DROP COLUMN`, but they be filtered by `ALTER` events in the previous version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Before v7.5.0, the DM Binlog Filter feature can only migrate or filter specified events, and the granularity is relatively coarse. For example, it can only filter large granularity of DDL events such as `ALTER`. This method is limited in some scenarios. For example, the application allows `ADD COLUMN` but not `DROP COLUMN`, but they are both filtered by `ALTER` events in the previous version.
```

>     Before v7.5.0, the DM Binlog Filter feature can only migrate or filter specified events, and the granularity is relatively coarse. For example, it can only filter large granularity of DDL events such as `ALTER`. This method is limited in some scenarios. For example, the application allows `ADD COLUMN` but not `DROP COLUMN`, but they are both filtered by `ALTER` events in the previous version.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Before v7.5.0, the DM Binlog Filter feature can only migrate or filter specified events, and the granularity is relatively coarse. For example, it can only filter large granularity of DDL events such as `ALTER`. This method is limited in some scenarios. For example, the application allows `ADD COLUMN` but not `DROP COLUMN`, but they are both filtered by `ALTER` events in the earlier DM versions.
```

>     Therefore, v7.5.0 has refined the supported DDL events, such as adding `MODIFY COLUMN` (modify the column data type), `DROP COLUMN`, and other fine-grained DDL events that will lead to data loss, truncation of data, and loss of precision. You can configure it as needed. It also supports interception of the DDL, and reports error alerts, so that you can intervene in time manually to avoid impacting downstream business data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To address such issues, v7.5.0 refines the supported DDL events, such as adding `MODIFY COLUMN` (modify the column data type), `DROP COLUMN`, and other fine-grained DDL events that will lead to data loss, truncation of data, and loss of precision. You can configure it as needed. This feature also supports interception of the DDL, and reports error alerts, so that you can intervene manually in time to avoid impacting downstream business data.
```

>     To address such issues, v7.5.0 refines the supported DDL events, such as adding `MODIFY COLUMN` (modify the column data type), `DROP COLUMN`, and other fine-grained DDL events that will lead to data loss, truncation of data, and loss of precision. You can configure it as needed. This feature also supports interception of the DDL, and reports error alerts, so that you can intervene manually in time to avoid impacting downstream business data.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    To address such issues, v7.5.0 refines the granularity of the supported DDL events, such as support filtering `MODIFY COLUMN` (modify the column data type), `DROP COLUMN`, and other fine-grained DDL events that lead to data loss, truncation of data, and loss of precision. You can configure it as needed. This feature also supports blocking incompatible DDL changes and reports errors, so that you can intervene manually in time to avoid impacting downstream business data.
```

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.4.0 to the current version (v7.5.0). If you are upgrading from v7.3.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* 行为变更 1

* 行为变更 2

### MySQL compatibility

* 兼容性 1

* 兼容性 2

### System variables

> | 变量名  | 修改类型（包括新增/修改/删除）    | 描述 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Variable name  | Change type    |  Description |
```

|--------|------------------------------|------|

> |  [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-从-v750-版本开始引入)      |   新增 | 该变量用来设置 `ANALYZE` 过程中的采样并发度。     |
> |  [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-从-v750-版本开始引入)      |   新增 | 该变量用于 TiDB 使用异步方式合并统计信息, 以避免 OOM 问题。    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750)      |   Newly added |  This variable is controls the sample concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process.    |
|  [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-ew-in-v750)      |   Newly added | This variable is used by TiDB to merge statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues.   |
```

> |  [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750)      |   Newly added |  This variable is controls the sample concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process.    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750)      |   Newly added |  This variable controls the sample concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process.    |
```

|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

> | 配置文件 | 配置项 | 修改类型 | 描述 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
```

| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> |    BR      |   [`--ignore-stats`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#备份统计信息)       |   新增       |   用于备份和恢复数据库统计信息。当指定该参数值为 `false` 时，BR 备份工具支持备份和恢复数据库的列、索引、和表级别的统计信息。      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|    BR      |   [`--ignore-stats`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics)       |   Newly added       |   Controls whether to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables.       |
```

|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |
|          |          |          |          |

### Others

## Offline package changes

从 v7.5.0 开始，`TiDB-community-toolkit` 二进制软件包中移除了以下内容：

- `tikv-importer-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`
- `mydumper`

## Deprecated features

* [Mydumper](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v4.0/mydumper-overview) 在 v7.5.0 中废弃，其绝大部分功能已经被 [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) 取代，强烈建议切换到 Dumpling。<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** 1593-->

* TiKV-importer 组件在 v7.5.0 中废弃，建议使用 [TiDB Lightning 物理导入模式](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode.md)作为替代方案。<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** 1594-->

* [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md) 在 v7.5.0 废弃数据同步功能，强烈建议使用 [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md) 来实现高效稳定的数据同步。尽管 TiDB Binlog 在 v7.5.0 仍支持 Point-in-Time Recovery (PITR) 场景，但是该组件在未来 LTS 版本中将被完全废弃，推荐使用 [PITR](/br/br-pitr-guide.md) 替代。<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** 1575-->

* 统计信息的[快速分析](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.4/system-variables#tidb_enable_fast_analyze)（实验特性）在 v7.5.0 中废弃。<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** -->

* 统计信息的[增量收集](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v7.4/statistics#增量收集)（实验特性）在 v7.5.0 中废弃。<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** -->

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - 优化合并 GlobalStats 的并发模型：引入 `tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats` 实现同时加载统计信息并合并，从而加速分区表场景下的合并 GlobalStats。同时优化合并 GlobalStats 的内存使用，以避免 OOM 并减少内存分配 [#47219](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47219) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->
>     - 优化 Analyze 流程：引入 `tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency` 精细化控制 Analyze 并发度，减少资源消耗。同时优化 Analyze 的内存使用，通过复用部分中间结果，减少内存分配，避免频繁 GC [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Optimize and merge the concurrency model of GlobalStats: Introduce [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) to enable simultaneous loading and merging of statistics, which speeds up merging GlobalStats in partitioned table scenarios. Optimize the memory usage of merging GlobalStats to avoid OOM and reduce memory allocations. [#47219](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47219) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->
    - Optimize `ANALYZE` process: Introduce [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) to better control the `ANALYZE` concurrency to reduce resource consumption. Optimize the memory usage of `ANALYZE` to reduce memory allocation and avoid frequent GC by reusing some intermediate results. [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->
```

>     - Optimize and merge the concurrency model of GlobalStats: Introduce [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) to enable simultaneous loading and merging of statistics, which speeds up merging GlobalStats in partitioned table scenarios. Optimize the memory usage of merging GlobalStats to avoid OOM and reduce memory allocations. [#47219](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47219) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the concurrency model of merging GlobalStats: introduce [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) to enable simultaneous loading and merging of statistics, which speeds up the generation of GlobalStats on partitioned tables. Optimize the memory usage of merging GlobalStats to avoid OOM and reduce memory allocations. [#47219](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47219) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->
```

>     - Optimize `ANALYZE` process: Introduce [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) to better control the `ANALYZE` concurrency to reduce resource consumption. Optimize the memory usage of `ANALYZE` to reduce memory allocation and avoid frequent GC by reusing some intermediate results. [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->

Reviewer 4: ``` suggestion
    - Optimize the `ANALYZE` process: introduce [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) to better control the `ANALYZE` concurrency to reduce resource consumption. Optimize the memory usage of `ANALYZE` to reduce memory allocation and avoid frequent GC by reusing some intermediate results. [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->
```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.0.
---

# TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.5.0#version-list)

TiDB 7.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 not only includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md), but also introduces the following key features and improvements:

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * Support selecting the TiDB nodes to parallelly execute the backend `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks of the distributed execution framework (GA) [#46453](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/46453 )@[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Support selecting the TiDB nodes to parallelly execute the backend `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks of the distributed execution framework (GA) [#46258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46258) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->
```

|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| BR | [`--ignore-stats`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics) | Newly added | Controls whether to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.column-selectors`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the specified columns of data change events that TiCDC sends to Kafka when dispatching incremental data. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.dispatchers.partition`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Modified | Controls how TiCDC dispatches incremental data to Kafka partitions. v7.5.0 introduces a new value option `columns`, which uses the explicitly specified column values to calculate the partition number. |

> |          |          |          |          |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| TiCDC | [`sql-mode`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the SQL mode used by TiCDC when parsing DDL statements. The default value is the same as the default SQL mode of TiDB. |
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Observability

* TiDB Dashboard supports heap profiling for TiKV [#15927](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15927) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

    Previously, addressing TiKV OOM or high memory usage issues typically required manual execution of `jeprof` to generate a heap profile in the instance environment. Starting from v7.5.0, TiKV enables remote processing of heap profiles. You can now directly access the flame graph and call graph of heap profile. This feature provides the same simple and easy-to-use experience as Go heap profiling.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dashboard/dashboard-profiling.md).

```

> * Support real-time update of checkpoint for continuous data validation [issue号](链接) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1496-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support real-time update of checkpoint for continuous data validation [#8463](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8463) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1496-->
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Optimize the concurrency model of merging GlobalStats: introduce [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) to enable simultaneous loading and merging of statistics, which speeds up the generation of GlobalStats on partitioned tables. Optimize the memory usage of merging GlobalStats to avoid OOM and reduce memory allocations. [#47219](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47219) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->
    - Optimize the `ANALYZE` process: introduce [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) to better control the `ANALYZE` concurrency to reduce resource consumption. Optimize the memory usage of `ANALYZE` to reduce memory allocation and avoid frequent GC by reusing some intermediate results. [#47275](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47275) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) <!--**tw@hfxsd** -->

>     - 改进 Placement Policy 的使用：增加对全局范围的策略配置，完善常用场景的语法支持  [#45384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45384) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) <!--**tw@qiancai** -->

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Optimize the use of placement policies: support configuring the range of a policy to global and improve the syntax support for common scenarios [#45384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45384) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) <!--**tw@qiancai** -->
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control</a> for background tasks (experimental) {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, bulk load with TiDB Lightning, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Resource groups support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>

Reviewer 2: This is a feature for 7.4 https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/release-7.4.0 . Should we delete it? @samhld

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> is a framework for resource-isolating workloads by Resource Groups, but it makes no calls on how individual queries affect work inside of each group. TiDB v7.2 introduced "runaway query conrol" to let operators control how TiDB identifies and treats these queries per Resource Group. Depending on need, long running queries may be terminated or throttled, and the queries can be identified by exact SQL text or their plan digests, for better generalization. In v7.4, TiDB allows operators to proactively watch for known bad queries, similar to a SQL blocklist at the database level.</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> is a framework for resource-isolating workloads by Resource Groups, but it makes no calls on how individual queries affect work inside of each group. TiDB v7.2 introduced "runaway queries control" to allow operators control how TiDB identifies and treats these queries per Resource Group. Depending on need, long running queries may be terminated or throttled, and the queries can be identified by exact SQL text, SQL digests or their plan digests, for better generalization. In v7.3, TiDB allows operators to proactively watch for known bad queries, similar to a SQL blocklist at the database level.</td>
```
To be accurate, manual management of runaway queries were introduced to v7.3

Reviewer 2: @samhld PTAL

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL</td>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a> {/* tw@qiancai */}</td>
    <td>Prior to v7.2, file system level (backdoor) importing was done with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a>. The same functionality is now incorporated into TiDB server nodes and is operated by the SQL interface using the IMPORT INTO command. This feature also uses the new distributed execution framework and global sort feature, which speeds it up and allows for more stability during very large imports.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements (experimental) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
>     <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute <code>IMPORT INTO</code> or <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements (GA) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
    <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute <code>IMPORT INTO</code> or <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements. In v7.5.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).</td>
```

    With the introduction of real-time updating of checkpoint for continuous data validation, you can now provide the binlog position from the upstream database. Once the continuous validation program detects this binlog position in memory, it immediately refreshes the checkpoint instead of refreshing it every few minutes. Therefore, you can quickly perform cut-off operations based on this immediately updated checkpoint.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-continuous-data-validation.md#set-the-cutover-point-for-continuous-data-validation).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v7.4.0 to the current version (v7.5.0). If you are upgrading from v7.3.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type    |  Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the sample concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency)      |  Modified |  Changes the default value from `1` to `2`.    |
| [`tidb_build_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_stats_concurrency)      |  Modified |  Changes the default value from `4` to `2`.     |
| [`tidb_merge_partition_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_merge_partition_stats_concurrency)    |  Modified   |  This variable takes effect from v7.5.0. This variable is used for TiDB to merge global statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues.    |
| [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the sample concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process. |
```

| [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) | Newly added | This variable is used by TiDB to merge statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. |
[`tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the maximum value of GOGC that the GOGC Tuner can adjust. |
| [`tidb_gogc_tuner_min_value`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gogc_tuner_min_value-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the minimum value of GOGC that the GOGC Tuner can adjust.|

> | `tidb_enable_fast_analyze` | Deleted | Controls whether to enable the statistics `Fast Analyze` feature. This feature for statistics is deprecated in v7.5.0. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `tidb_enable_fast_analyze` | Deprecated | Controls whether to enable the statistics `Fast Analyze` feature. This feature for statistics is deprecated in v7.5.0. |
```

    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> is a framework for resource-isolating workloads by Resource Groups, but it makes no calls on how individual queries affect work inside of each group. TiDB v7.2.0 introduces "runaway queries control" to let you control how TiDB identifies and treats these queries per Resource Group. Depending on needs, long running queries might be terminated or throttled, and the queries can be identified by exact SQL text, SQL digests or their plan digests, for better generalization. In v7.3.0, TiDB enables you to proactively watch for known bad queries, similar to a SQL blocklist at the database level.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL</td>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a> {/* tw@qiancai */}</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into">`IMPORT INTO`</a> {/* tw@qiancai */}</td>
```

>     <td>Before v7.2, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same functionality is integrated into the `IMPORT INTO` statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> feature, which improves import efficiency and provides greater stability during large-scale imports.</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.2, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same functionality is integrated into the `IMPORT INTO` statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> feature, which improves import efficiency and provides greater stability during large-scale imports.</td>
```

    <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute <code>IMPORT INTO</code> or <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements. In v7.5.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
    <td>Adding indexes can be big resource consumers and can affect online traffic. Even when throttled in a Resource Group or isolated to labeled nodes, there may still be a need to suspend these jobs in emergencies. As of v7.2, TiDB now natively supports suspending any number of these background jobs at once, freeing up needed resources while avoiding having to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * Support selecting the TiDB nodes to parallelly execute the backend `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks of the distributed execution framework (GA) [#46258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46258) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Support designating and isolating TiDB nodes to execute `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks when the distributed execution framework is enabled [#46258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46258) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->
```

### DB operations

* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (GA) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1611-->

    The pause and resume operations for DDL jobs introduced in v7.2.0 become generally available (GA). These operations let you pause resource-intensive DDL jobs (such as creating indexes) to save resources and minimize the impact on online traffic. When resources permit, you can seamlessly resume DDL jobs without canceling and restarting them. This feature improves resource utilization, enhances user experience, and simplifies the schema change process.

    You can pause and resume multiple DDL jobs using `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` or `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS`:

    ```sql
    ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).

* BR supports backing up and restoring statistics [#48008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48008) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!--**tw@hfxsd** 1437-->

>     Starting from TiDB v7.5.0, the `br` command-line tool introduces the `--ignore-stats` parameter to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. In this case, you do not need to manually run the statistics collection task for the TiDB database restored from the backup, or wait for the completion of the automatic collection task. This feature simplifies the database maintenance work and improves the query performance.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    Starting from TiDB v7.5.0, the `br` command-line tool introduces the `--ignore-stats` parameter to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. In this case, you do not need to manually run the statistics collection task for the TiDB database restored from the backup, or wait for the completion of automatic collection task.s This feature simplifies database maintenance work and improves query performance.
```

    Before v7.5.0, the DM Binlog Filter feature can only migrate or filter specified events, and the granularity is relatively coarse. For example, it can only filter large granularity of DDL events such as `ALTER`. This method is limited in some scenarios. For example, the application allows `ADD COLUMN` but not `DROP COLUMN`, but they are both filtered by `ALTER` events in the earlier DM versions.

    To address such issues, v7.5.0 refines the granularity of the supported DDL events, such as support filtering `MODIFY COLUMN` (modify the column data type), `DROP COLUMN`, and other fine-grained DDL events that lead to data loss, truncation of data, and loss of precision. You can configure it as needed. This feature also supports blocking incompatible DDL changes and reporting errors for such changes, so that you can intervene manually in time to avoid impacting downstream application data.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-binlog-event-filter.md#parameter-descriptions).

> * Support real-time update of checkpoint for continuous data validation [#8463](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8463) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1496-->

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Support real-time checkpoint updates for continuous data validation [#8463](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/8463) @[lichunzhu](https://github.com/lichunzhu) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1496-->
```

Author: @ran-huang PTAL

Reviewer 3: lgtm

>     Before v7.5.0, the [continuous data validation feature](/dm/dm-continuous-data-validation.md) ensures the data consistency during replication from DM to downstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to a few tens of seconds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Before v7.5.0, the [continuous data validation feature](/dm/dm-continuous-data-validation.md) ensures the data consistency during replication from DM to downstream. This serves as the basis for cutting over business traffic from the upstream database to TiDB. However, due to various factors such as replication delay and waiting for re-validation of inconsistent data, the continuous validation checkpoint must be refreshed every few minutes. This is unacceptable for some business scenarios where the cutover time is limited to tens of seconds.
```

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type    |  Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_enable_fast_analyze`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_fast_analyze) | Deprecated | Controls whether to enable the statistics `Fast Analyze` feature. This feature is deprecated in v7.5.0. |
| [`tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_partition_concurrency) |  Modified | Changes the default value from `1` to `2` after further tests. |
| [`tidb_build_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_stats_concurrency) | Modified | Changes the default value from `4` to `2` after further tests. |
| [`tidb_merge_partition_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_merge_partition_stats_concurrency)    |  Modified | This system variable takes effect starting from v7.5.0. It specifies the concurrency of merging statistics for a partitioned table when TiDB analyzes the partitioned table. |

> | [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the sample concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_build_sampling_stats_concurrency-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the sampling concurrency of the `ANALYZE` process. |
```
Aligned with the document

| [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) | Newly added | This variable is used by TiDB to merge statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. |

> [`tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the maximum value of GOGC that the GOGC Tuner can adjust. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gogc_tuner_max_value-new-in-v750) | Newly added | Controls the maximum value of GOGC that the GOGC Tuner can adjust. |
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| BR | [`--ignore-stats`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics) | Newly added | Controls whether to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the br command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.column-selectors`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the specified columns of data change events that TiCDC sends to Kafka when dispatching incremental data. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.dispatchers.partition`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Modified | Controls how TiCDC dispatches incremental data to Kafka partitions. v7.5.0 introduces a new value option `columns`, which uses the explicitly specified column values to calculate the partition number. |
| TiCDC | [`sql-mode`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the SQL mode used by TiCDC when parsing DDL statements. The default value is the same as the default SQL mode of TiDB. |

> | TiDB Lightning | Deleted | `--importer` | Specifies the address of TiKV-importer, which is deprecated in v7.5.0. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB Lightning | `--importer` | Deleted | Specifies the address of TiKV-importer, which is deprecated in v7.5.0. |
```

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiCDC

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
>     - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that executing queries on empty partitions causes query failure [#8220](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8220) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix a crash issue when the tiflash replica of a table is created [#8217](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8217) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Resource control for <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental, introduced in v7.2.0)</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> is a framework for resource-isolating workloads by Resource Groups, but it makes no calls on how individual queries affect work inside of each group. TiDB v7.2.0 introduces "runaway queries control" to let you control how TiDB identifies and treats these queries per Resource Group. Depending on needs, long running queries might be terminated or throttled, and the queries can be identified by exact SQL text, SQL digests or their plan digests, for better generalization. In v7.3.0, TiDB enables you to proactively watch for known bad queries, similar to a SQL blocklist at the database level.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL</td>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility (introduced in v7.4.0)</td>

>     <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default character set is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into"><code>IMPORT INTO</code></a> (GA)</td>

>     <td>Before v7.2.0, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same capability is integrated into the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> for parallel import, which improves import efficiency during large-scale imports.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.2.0, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and used its physical import mode. Now, the same capability is integrated into the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> for parallel import, which improves import efficiency during large-scale imports.</td>
```

    - Optimize the use of placement policies: support configuring the range of a policy to global and improve the syntax support for common scenarios. [#45384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45384) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Improve the performance of adding indexes with `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` enabled. In internal tests, v7.5.0 improves the performance by up to 62.5% compared with v6.5.0. [#47757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47757) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

+ TiKV

    - Avoid holding mutex when writing Titan manifest files to prevent affecting other threads [#15351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15351) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

+ PD

    - Improve the stability and usability of the `evict-slow-trend` scheduler [#7156](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7156) @[LykxSassinato](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

> + TiFlash
> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

+ TiKV

    - Avoid holding mutex when writing Titan manifest files to prevent affecting other threads [#15351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15351) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

+ PD

    - Improve the stability and usability of the `evict-slow-trend` scheduler [#7156](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7156) @[LykxSassinato](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

+ TiFlash

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Add a new inter-table backup parameter `table-concurrency` for snapshot backups. This parameter is used to control the inter-table concurrency of meta information such as statistics backup and data validation [48571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48571) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - During restoring a snapshot backup, BR retries when it encounters certain network errors [48528](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48528) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

>         - TiDB snapshot backup and restore supports setting permissions through AWS session tokens and IAM roles [#39832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39832) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

Author: ```suggestion
```

    <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**: 1-->
    - Improve the performance of adding indexes with `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` enabled. In internal tests, v7.5.0 improves the performance by up to 62.5% compared with v6.5.0. [#47757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47757) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

+ TiKV

    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 改进提升> TiKV - Avoid holding mutex when writing Titan manifest files to prevent affecting other threads [#15351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15351) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

+ PD

  <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**: 1-->
    - Improve the stability and usability of the `evict-slow-trend` scheduler [#7156](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7156) @[LykxSassinato](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

+ TiFlash

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

      <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**: 1-->
        - TiDB snapshot backup and restore supports setting permissions through AWS session tokens and IAM roles [#39832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/39832) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

    + TiCDC

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

        - Fix the performance issue caused by accessing NFS directories when replicating data to an object store sink [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the storage path is misspelled when the `claim-check` function is enabled  [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

```

    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> is a framework for resource-isolating workloads by Resource Groups, but it makes no calls on how individual queries affect work inside of each group. TiDB v7.2.0 introduces "runaway queries control" to let you control how TiDB identifies and treats these queries per Resource Group. Depending on needs, long running queries might be terminated or throttled, and the queries can be identified by exact SQL text, SQL digests or their plan digests, for better generalization. In v7.3.0, TiDB enables you to proactively watch for known bad queries, similar to a SQL blocklist at the database level.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL</td>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into"><code>IMPORT INTO</code></a> {/* tw@qiancai */}</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into"><code>IMPORT INTO</code></a> (GA){/* tw@qiancai */}</td>
```

>     <td>Before v7.2, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same functionality is integrated into the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> and the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> feature, which improves import efficiency and provides greater stability during large-scale imports.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.2, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same functionality is integrated into the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> for parallel import, which improves import efficiency during large-scale imports.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics).

### Data migration

* Support the `IMPORT INTO` SQL statement (GA) [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)<!--**tw@qiancai** 1579-->

    In v7.5.0, the `IMPORT INTO` SQL statement becomes generally available (GA). This statement integrates the [Physical Import Mode](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode.md) capability of TiDB Lightning and allows you to quickly import data in formats such as CSV, SQL, and PARQUET into an empty table in TiDB. This import method eliminates the need for a separate deployment and management of TiDB Lightning, thereby reducing the complexity of data import and greatly improving import efficiency.

> 
>     In addition, you can add the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option in the `IMPORT INTO` statement to enable the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature, which helps boost import performance and stability. In the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option, you can specify a cloud storage address for the encoded data.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.0.
---

# TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes

Release date: November 23, 2023

TiDB version: 7.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.5.0#version-list)

TiDB 7.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

> Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), and [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md). The following table lists some highlights from 7.2.0 to 7.5.0:

Author: ```suggestion
Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), and [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md). When you upgrade from 7.1.x to 7.5.0, you can download the [TiDB Release Notes PDF](https://download.pingcap.org/tidb-v7.2-to-v7.5-en-release-notes.pdf) to view all release notes between the two LTS versions. The following table lists some highlights from 7.2.0 to 7.5.0:
```

    Before v7.4.0, when executing tasks like `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` in the distributed parallel execution framework, each TiDB node needs to allocate a significant amount of local disk space for sorting encoded index KV pairs and table data KV pairs. However, due to the lack of global sorting capability, there might be overlapping data between different TiDB nodes and within each individual node during the process. As a result, TiKV has to constantly perform compaction operations while importing these KV pairs into its storage engine, which impacts the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO`.

    In v7.4.0, TiDB introduces the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature. Instead of writing the encoded data locally and sorting it there, the data is now written to cloud storage for global sorting. Once sorted, both the indexed data and table data are imported into TiKV in parallel, thereby improving performance and stability.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The backend task distributed execution framework introduced in v6.6.0 has become GA. In versions before TiDB v7.1.0, only one TiDB node can execute DDL tasks at the same time. Starting from v7.1.0, multiple TiDB nodes can execute the same DDL task in parallel under the backend task distributed execution framework. Starting from v7.2.0, the backend task distributed execution framework supports multiple TiDB nodes to execute the same `IMPORT INTO` task in parallel, thereby better utilizing the resources of the TiDB cluster and significantly improving the performance of DDL and `IMPORT INTO` tasks. In addition, you can also increase TiDB nodes to linearly improve the performance of these tasks.

    After introducing the global sort feature in v7.4.0, encoded data is no longer written locally for sorting but instead written to cloud storage for global sorting.
Then, TiDB imports index data and table data that have been globally sorted into TiKV in parallel, thus improving performance and stability.

    To use the backend task distributed execution framework, set [`tidb_enable_dist_task`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_dist_task-new-in-v710) value to `ON`.

```

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1582-->

>     Before v7.5.0, when you add multiple indexes (`ADD INDEX`) in a single SQL statement, the performance was similar to adding multiple indexes using separate SQL statements. Starting from v7.5.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement is significantly improved, improving XX, which greatly reduces the time required for adding indexes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Before v7.5.0, when you add multiple indexes (`ADD INDEX`) in a single SQL statement, the performance was similar to adding multiple indexes using separate SQL statements. Starting from v7.5.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement is significantly improved. Especially in scenarios with wide tables, internal test data shows that performance can be improved by up to 94%. 
```

    - Optimize the use of placement policies: support configuring the range of a policy to global and improve the syntax support for common scenarios [#45384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45384) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) <!--**tw@qiancai** -->
    <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**: 1-->
    - Improve the performance of adding indexes with `tidb_ddl_enable_fast_reorg` enabled. In internal tests, v7.5.0 improves the performance by up to 62.5% compared with v6.5.0. [#47757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47757) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

+ TiKV

    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 改进提升> TiKV - Avoid holding mutex when writing Titan manifest files to prevent affecting other threads [#15351](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15351) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

+ PD

  <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**: 1-->
    - Improve the stability and usability of the `evict-slow-trend` scheduler [#7156](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7156) @[LykxSassinato](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

+ TiFlash

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        <!--**tw@hfxsd**: 2-->
        - 快照备份新增表间备份参数 `table-concurrency`，用于控制统计信息备份、数据校验等元信息的表间并发度 [48571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48571) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - 快照备份恢复在遇到某些网络错误时会进行重试 [48528](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48528) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Add a new inter-table backup parameter `table-concurrency` for snapshot backups. This parameter is used to control the inter-table concurrency of meta information such as statistics backup and data validation [48571](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48571) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - During restoring a snapshot backup, BR retries when it encounters certain network errors [48528](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48528) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

        - Fix the performance issue caused by accessing NFS directories when replicating data to an object store sink [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the storage path is misspelled when `claim-check` is enabled [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that column selector is incorrect when `column filter` is enabled [#10042](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10042) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC scheduling is not balanced in some cases [#9845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9845) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that callbacks might be lost when TiCDC replicates data to Kafka [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>         - Fix the issue that the processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849)[#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849) [#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the issue that TiDB returns `Can't find column` for queries with `GROUP_CONCAT` [#41957](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41957) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the panic issue of `batch-client` in `client-go` [#47691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47691) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue of incorrect memory usage estimation in `INDEX_LOOKUP_HASH_JOIN` [#47788](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47788) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue of uneven workload caused by the rejoining of a TiFlash node that has been offline for a long time [#35418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35418) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue that the chunk cannot be reused when the HashJoin operator performs probe [#48082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48082) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>     - Fix the issue that the `COALESCE` function returns incorrect result type for Date type parameters [#46475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46475) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `COALESCE()` function returns incorrect result type for `DATE` type parameters [#46475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46475) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

>     - Fix the issue that `Update` statements with subqueries are incorrectly converted to PointGet [#48171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48171) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `UPDATE` statements with subqueries are incorrectly converted to PointGet [#48171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48171) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
```

    - Fix the issue that incorrect results are returned when the cached execution plans contain the comparison between date types and `unix_timestamp` [#48165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48165) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that an error is reported when default inline common table expressions (CTEs) with aggregate functions or window functions are referenced by recursive CTEs [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Fix the issue that the optimizer mistakenly selects IndexFullScan to reduce sort introduced by window functions [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

>     - Fix the issue that multiple references to CTEs result in incorrect results due to condition pushdown of CTEs  [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that multiple references to CTEs result in incorrect results due to condition pushdown of CTEs [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
```

+ TiKV

    - (dup): release-5.4.0.md > Bug 修复> TiKV - Fix the issue that retrying prewrite requests in the pessimistic transaction mode might cause the risk of data inconsistency in rare cases [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)

+ PD

  <!--**tw@qiancai**: 8-->

>     - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> PD - Fix the issue that `evict-leader-scheduler` might lose configuration [#6897](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6897) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
>     - Fix the issue that after a store goes offline, the monitoring metric of its statistics is not deleted [#7180](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7180) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - Fix the issue that `canSync` and `hasMajority` might be calculated incorrectly for clusters adopting the Data Replication Auto Synchronous (DR Auto-Sync) mode when the configuration of Placement Rules is complex  [#7201](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7201) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
>     - Fix the issue that the rule checker does not add Learners according to the configuration of Placement Rules  [#7185](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7185) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
>     - Fix the issue that TiDB Dashboard cannot read PD `trace` data correctly [#7253](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7253) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
>     - Fix the issue that PD might panic due to empty Regions obtained internally [#7261](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7261) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - Fix the issue that `available_stores` is calculated incorrectly for clusters adopting the Data Replication Auto Synchronous (DR Auto-Sync) mode [#7221](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7221) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
>     - Fix the issue that PD might delete normal Peers when TiKV nodes are unavailable  [#7249](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7249) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - Fix the issue that adding multiple TiKV nodes to a large cluster might cause TiKV heartbeat reporting to become slow or stuck [#7248](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7248) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> PD - Fix the issue that `evict-leader-scheduler` might lose configuration [#6897](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6897) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)
    - Fix the issue that after a store goes offline, the monitoring metric of its statistics is not deleted [#7180](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7180) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that `canSync` and `hasMajority` might be calculated incorrectly for clusters adopting the Data Replication Auto Synchronous (DR Auto-Sync) mode when the configuration of Placement Rules is complex [#7201](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7201) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
    - Fix the issue that the rule checker does not add Learners according to the configuration of Placement Rules [#7185](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7185) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB Dashboard cannot read PD `trace` data correctly [#7253](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7253) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the issue that PD might panic due to empty Regions obtained internally [#7261](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7261) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that `available_stores` is calculated incorrectly for clusters adopting the Data Replication Auto Synchronous (DR Auto-Sync) mode [#7221](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7221) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
    - Fix the issue that PD might delete normal Peers when TiKV nodes are unavailable [#7249](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7249) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that adding multiple TiKV nodes to a large cluster might cause TiKV heartbeat reporting to become slow or stuck [#7248](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7248) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

    + TiCDC

      <!--**tw@hfxsd**: 8-->
        - Fix the performance issue caused by accessing NFS directories when replicating data to an object store sink [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the storage path is misspelled when `claim-check` is enabled [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that column selector is incorrect when `column filter` is enabled [#10042](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10042) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC scheduling is not balanced in some cases [#9845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9845) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that callbacks might be lost when TiCDC replicates data to Kafka [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>         - Fix the issue that the TiCDC processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849) [#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the TiCDC processor might panic in some cases [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849) [#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

        - Fix the issue that enabling `kv-client.enable-multiplexing` causes replication tasks to get stuck [#9673](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9673) @[fubinzh](https://github.com/fubinzh)

>         - Fix the issue that an owner node gets stuck due to NFS failure when redo logging is enabled [#9886](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9886) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that an owner node gets stuck due to NFS failure when the redo log is enabled [#9886](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9886) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Support for running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements in parallel {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
    <td>Different from distributed and parallel DDL jobs, this feature allows for concurrent jobs to run where they were otherwise running synchronously. Previously, it would take the time of X plus the time of Y to run DDL statements X and Y simultaneously. With this feature, the total execution time of DDL is significantly reduced. Especially in scenarios with wide tables, internal test data shows that performance can be improved by up to 94%.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> (experimental, introduced in v7.4.0) {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Optimize <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global Sort</a> (experimental, introduced in v7.4.0) {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL</td>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility (introduced in v7.4.0) {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into"><code>IMPORT INTO</code></a> (GA){/* tw@qiancai */}</td>

>     <td>Before v7.2, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same functionality is integrated into the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> for parallel import, which improves import efficiency during large-scale imports.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.2.0, to import data based on the file system, you needed to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same functionality is integrated into the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> for parallel import, which improves import efficiency during large-scale imports.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code> SQL statements (GA) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Specify <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank">the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code> SQL statements (GA) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
```

>     <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code> SQL statements (GA) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to distributedly execute the <code>ADD INDEX</code> and <code>IMPORT INTO</code> SQL statements (GA) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
```

    <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute <code>ADD INDEX</code> or <code>IMPORT INTO</code> SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements. In v7.5.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> (GA) {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>

>     <td>Adding indexes can be big resource consumers and can affect online traffic. Even when throttled in a Resource Group or isolated to labeled nodes, there may still be a need to suspend these jobs in emergencies. As of v7.2, TiDB now natively supports suspending any number of these background jobs at once, freeing up needed resources while avoiding having to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>Adding indexes can be big resource consumers and can affect online traffic. Even when throttled in a Resource Group or isolated to labeled nodes, there may still be a need to suspend these jobs in emergencies. As of v7.2.0, TiDB now natively supports suspending any number of these background jobs at once, freeing up needed resources while avoiding having to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>
```

  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

> * Support designating and isolating TiDB nodes to execute `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks when the distributed execution framework is enabled [#46258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46258) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Support designating and isolating TiDB nodes to distributedly execute `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks when the distributed execution framework is enabled [#46258](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46258) @[ywqzzy](https://github.com/ywqzzy)<!--**tw@hfxsd** 1581-->
```

>     Executing `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel in a resource-intensive cluster can consume a large amount of TiDB node resources, which can lead to cluster performance degradation. To avoid performance impact on existing services, v7.4.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) as an experimental feature to control the service scope of each TiDB node under the [TiDB backend task distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). You can select several existing TiDB nodes or set the TiDB service scope for new TiDB nodes, and all parallel `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` tasks only run on these nodes. In v7.5.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Executing `ADD INDEX` or `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel in a resource-intensive cluster can consume a large amount of TiDB node resources, which can lead to cluster performance degradation. To avoid performance impact on existing services, v7.4.0 introduces the system variable [`tidb_service_scope`](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740) as an experimental feature to control the service scope of each TiDB node under the [TiDB backend task distributed execution framework](/tidb-distributed-execution-framework.md). You can select several existing TiDB nodes or set the TiDB service scope for new TiDB nodes, and all distributedly executed `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` tasks only run on these nodes. In v7.5.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA).
```

    - Fix the issue that `Update` statements with subqueries are incorrectly converted to PointGet [#48171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48171) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue that incorrect results are returned when the cached execution plans contain the comparison between date types and `unix_timestamp` [#48165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48165) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that an error is reported when default inline common table expressions (CTEs) with aggregate functions or window functions are referenced by recursive CTEs [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Fix the issue that the optimizer mistakenly selects IndexFullScan to reduce sort introduced by window functions [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that multiple references to CTEs result in incorrect results due to condition pushdown of CTEs  [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the MySQL compression protocol cannot handle large loads of data (>=16M)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB does not read `cgroup` resource limits when it is started with `systemd`
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740).

### Performance

* The TiDB backend task distributed execution framework becomes generally available (GA), improving the performance and stability of `ADD INDEX` and `IMPORT INTO` tasks in parallel execution [#45719](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/45719) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1580-->

    The backend task distributed execution framework introduced in v6.6.0 has become GA. In versions before TiDB v7.1.0, only one TiDB node can execute DDL tasks at the same time. Starting from v7.1.0, multiple TiDB nodes can execute the same DDL task in parallel under the backend task distributed execution framework. Starting from v7.2.0, the backend task distributed execution framework supports multiple TiDB nodes to execute the same `IMPORT INTO` task in parallel, thereby better utilizing the resources of the TiDB cluster and significantly improving the performance of DDL and `IMPORT INTO` tasks. In addition, you can also increase TiDB nodes to linearly improve the performance of these tasks.

>     After introducing the global sort feature in v7.4.0, encoded data is no longer written locally for sorting but instead written to cloud storage for global sorting.
> Then, TiDB imports index data and table data that have been globally sorted into TiKV in parallel, thus improving performance and stability.

Author: ```suggestion
    After introducing the global sort feature in v7.4.0, encoded data is no longer written locally for sorting but instead written to cloud storage for global sorting. Then, TiDB imports index data and table data that have been globally sorted into TiKV in parallel, thus improving performance and stability.
```

> 
>     After introducing the global sort feature in v7.4.0, encoded data is no longer written locally for sorting but instead written to cloud storage for global sorting.
> Then, TiDB imports index data and table data that have been globally sorted into TiKV in parallel, thus improving performance and stability.

Author: ```suggestion
```

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

  <!--**tw@ran-huang**: 4-->
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Prohibit split table operations on non-integer clustered indexes [#47350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47350) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the issue of encoding time fields with incorrect timezone information [#46033](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46033) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the issue that the Sort operator might cause TiDB to crash during the spill process [#47538](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47538) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the issue that TiDB returns `Can't find column` for queries with `GROUP_CONCAT` [#41957](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41957) @[AilinKid](https://github.com/AilinKid)
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the panic issue of `batch-client` in `client-go` [#47691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47691) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

>     - 修复 INDEX_LOOKUP_HASH_JOIN 内存使用量估算错误的问题 [#47788](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47788) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of incorrect memory usage estimation in `INDEX_LOOKUP_HASH_JOIN` [#47788](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47788) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
```

>     - 修复长时间下线的 TiFlash 节点重新加入集群后造成的负载不均衡的问题 [#35418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35418) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of uneven workload caused by the rejoining of a TiFlash node that has been offline for a long time [#35418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35418) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
```

>     - 修复 HashJoin 算子 Probe 时 Chunk 无法复用的问题 [#48082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48082) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
>     - 修复 COALESCE 函数对于 Date 类型参数返回结果类型不正确的问题 [#46475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46475) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the chunk cannot be reused when the HashJoin operator performs probe [#48082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48082) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `COALESCE` function returns incorrect result type for Date type parameters [#46475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46475) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)
```

+ TiKV

    - (dup): release-5.4.0.md > Bug 修复> TiKV - Fix the issue that retrying prewrite requests in the pessimistic transaction mode might cause the risk of data inconsistency in rare cases [#11187](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11187)

+ PD

  <!--**tw@qiancai**: 8-->
    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> PD - Fix the issue that `evict-leader-scheduler` might lose configuration [#6897](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/6897) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

>     - 修复 store 下线后对应的打点统计数据未删除的问题 [#7180](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7180) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
>     - 修复 DR-AutoSync 在 Placement Rule 配置比较复杂时，canSync 和 hasMajority 可能计算错误的问题 [#7201](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7201) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
>     - 修复 rule checker 未按照设定的 Placement Rule 添加 Learner 的问题 [#7185](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7185) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
>     - 修复 TiDB Dashboard 不能正常抓取 PD Trace 数据的问题 [#7253](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7253) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
>     - 修复 PD 内部获取的 Region 可能为空导致 PD Panic 的问题 [#7261](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7261) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 修复 DR-AutoSync available_stores 计算错误的问题 [#7221](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7221) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
>     - 修复 TiKV 节点不可用时有一定几率删除正常 Peers 的问题 [#7249](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7249) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
>     - 修复在大集群中添加多个 TiKV 节点可能导致 TiKV 心跳上报变慢或卡住的问题 [#7248](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7248) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that after the store goes offline, the monitoring metric of the corresponding statistics is not deleted [#7180](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7180) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Fix the issue that clusters adopting the Data Replication Auto Synchronous (DR Auto-Sync) mode might calculate `canSync` and `hasMajority` incorrectly when the configuration of Placement Rules is complex  [#7201](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7201) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
    - Fix the issue that the rule checker does not add Learners according to the configuration of Placement Rules  [#7185](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7185) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB Dashboard cannot read PD `trace` data correctly [#7253](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7253) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - Fix the issue that PD might panic due to empty Regions obtained internally  [#7261](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7261) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that clusters adopting the Data Replication Auto Synchronous (DR Auto-Sync) mode calculate `available_stores` incorrectly [#7221](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7221) @[disksing](https://github.com/disksing)
    - Fix the issue that PD might delete normal Peers when TiKV nodes are unavailable  [#7249](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7249) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - Fix the issue that adding multiple TiKV nodes to a large cluster might cause TiKV heartbeat reporting to become slow or stuck [#7248](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7248) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

    - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> TiDB - Fix the panic issue of `batch-client` in `client-go` [#47691](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47691) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Fix the issue of incorrect memory usage estimation in `INDEX_LOOKUP_HASH_JOIN` [#47788](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47788) @[SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
    - Fix the issue of uneven workload caused by the rejoining of a TiFlash node that has been offline for a long time [#35418](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35418) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue that the chunk cannot be reused when the HashJoin operator performs probe [#48082](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48082) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that the `COALESCE` function returns incorrect result type for Date type parameters [#46475](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46475) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that `Update` statements with subqueries are incorrectly converted to PointGet [#48171](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48171) @[hi-rustin](https://github.com/hi-rustin)
    - Fix the issue that incorrect results are returned when the cached execution plans contain the comparison between date types and `unix_timestamp` [#48165](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48165) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that an error is reported when default inline common table expressions (CTEs) with aggregate functions or window functions are referenced by recursive CTEs [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - Fix the issue that the optimizer mistakenly selects IndexFullScan to reduce sort introduced by window functions [#46177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46177) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that multiple references to CTEs result in incorrect results due to condition pushdown of CTEs  [#47881](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47881) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

```

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the performance issue caused by accessing NFS directories when replicating data to an object store sink [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the storage path is misspelled when `claim-check` is enabled [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that column selector is incorrect when `column filter` is enabled [#10042](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10042) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC scheduling is not balanced in some cases [#9845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9845) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that callbacks might be lost when TiCDC replicates data to Kafka [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)

>         - Fix the issue that the processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849) [#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the TiCDC processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849) [#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

>         - Fix the performance issue caused by accessing NFS directories when replicating data to an object store sink [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
>         - Fix the issue that the storage path is misspelled when `claim-check` is enabled [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
>         - Fix the issue that column selector is incorrect when `column filter` is enabled [#10042](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10042) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
>         - Fix the issue that TiCDC scheduling is not balanced in some cases [#9845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9845) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
>         - Fix the issue that callbacks might be lost when TiCDC replicates data to Kafka [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
>         - Fix the issue that the TiCDC processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849) [#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
>         - Fix the issue that enabling `kv-client.enable-multiplexing` causes replication tasks to get stuck [#9673](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9673) @[fubinzh](https://github.com/fubinzh)
>         - Fix the issue that an owner node gets stuck due to NFS failure when redo logging is enabled [#9886](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9886) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

  <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**: 3-->
    - Fix the issue that the `UPPER()` and `LOWER()` functions return inconsistent results between TiDB and TiFlash [#7695](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7695) @[windtalker](https://github.com/windtalker)
    - Fix the issue that executing queries on empty partitions causes query failure [#8220](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8220) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
    - Fix the panic issue caused by table creation failure when replicating TiFlash replicas [#8217](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8217) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

      <!--**tw@Oreoxmt**: 1-->
        - (dup): release-7.1.2.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - Fix the issue that PITR might skip restoring the `CREATE INDEX` DDL statement [#47482](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/47482) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - Fix the issue that the log backup might get stuck in some scenarios when backing up large wide tables [#15714](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15714) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC

      <!--**tw@hfxsd**: 8-->

>         - 修复同步到对象存储时访问 NFS 目录导致的性能问题 [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041)
>         - 修复开启 claim-check 功能，存储路径拼写不对的问题 [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036)
>         - 修复开启 column filter 功能时列设置不对的问题 [#10042](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10042)
>         - 修复 cdc 在某些情况下调度不均衡的问题 [#9845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9845)
>         - 修复同步到 Kafka 时 callback 可能出现丢失的问题 [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855)
>         - 修复某些特殊场景下 processor 可能 panic 的问题 [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849)[#9917](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9917)
>         - 修复某些场景下，TiCDC 丢失了对 Region 错误的处理导致同步任务卡住的问题 [#9673](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9673)
>         - 修复开启 Redo log 时，NFS 出现故障导致 owner 节点卡住的问题 [#9886](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9886)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the performance issue caused by accessing NFS directories when replicating data to an object store sink [#10041](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10041) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96)
        - Fix the issue that the storage path is misspelled when `claim-check` is enabled [#10036](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10036) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that column selector is incorrect when `column filter` is enabled [#10042](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10042) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC scheduling is not balanced in some cases [#9845](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9845) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that callbacks might be lost when TiCDC replicates data to Kafka [#9855](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9855) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu)
        - Fix the issue that the TiCDC processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849] (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849)[#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
        - Fix the issue that enabling `kv-client.enable-multiplexing` causes replication tasks to get stuck [#9673](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9673) @[fubinzh](https://github.com/fubinzh)
        - Fix the issue that an owner node gets stuck due to NFS failure when redo logging is enabled [#9886](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9886) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

>         - Fix the issue that the TiCDC processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849] (https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849)[#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the TiCDC processor might panic in some scenarios [#9849](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9849) [#9915](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/9915) @[hicqu](https://github.com/hicqu) @[3AceShowHand](https://github.com/3AceShowHand)
```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.0.
---

# TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.5.0#version-list)

TiDB 7.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 not only includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md), but also introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>Support for running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements in parallel {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
>     <td>Different from distributed and parallel DDL jobs, this feature allows for concurrent jobs to run where they were otherwise running syncrhonsously. Where running DDL statements x, y at the same time used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Support for running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements in parallel {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
    <td>Different from distributed and parallel DDL jobs, this feature allows for concurrent jobs to run where they were otherwise running syncrhonsously. Where running DDL statements x, y at the same time used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>
```
@ran-huang @Frank945946 PTAL

Reviewer 7: Please hold as we await the performance test results, expected to be available tomorrow.

Reviewer 3: Edited the comment

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> optimization {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
>     <td>Laying the groundwork with the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed framework</a> in v7.2, TiDB introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings.Operations like ADD INDEX and IMPORT INTO will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> optimization {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
    <td>Laying the groundwork with the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed framework</a> in v7.2, TiDB introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings.Operations like ADD INDEX and IMPORT INTO will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>
```
@ran-huang @Frank945946 PTAL

Reviewer 3: Edited the comment

Reviewer 5: @Frank945946 @ran-huang 7.2 here refers to the distributed execution framework, not global sort. I will slightly modify to make that more clear.

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control</a> for background tasks (experimental) {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
>     <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, bulk load with TiDB Lightning, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-background-tasks" target="_blank">Resource control</a> for background tasks (experimental) {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In v7.1.0, the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> feature was introduced to mitigate resource and storage access interference between workloads. TiDB v7.4.0 applies this control to background tasks as well. In v7.4.0, Resource Control now identifies and manages the resources produced by background tasks, such as auto-analyze, Backup & Restore, bulk load with TiDB Lightning, and online DDL. This will eventually apply to all background tasks.</td>
```
@songrijie PTAL

Reviewer: LGTM

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Resource groups support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> is a framework for resource-isolating workloads by Resource Groups, but it makes no calls on how individual queries affect work inside of each group. TiDB v7.2 introduced "runaway query conrol" to let operators control how TiDB identifies and treats these queries per Resource Group. Depending on need, long running queries may be terminated or throttled, and the queries can be identified by exact SQL text or their plan digests, for better generalization. In v7.4, TiDB allows operators to proactively watch for known bad queries, similar to a SQL blocklist at the database level. </td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Resource groups support <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#manage-queries-that-consume-more-resources-than-expected-runaway-queries"> managing runaway queries</a> (experimental) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-resource-control#use-resource-control-to-achieve-resource-isolation" target="_blank">Resource Control</a> is a framework for resource-isolating workloads by Resource Groups, but it makes no calls on how individual queries affect work inside of each group. TiDB v7.2 introduced "runaway query conrol" to let operators control how TiDB identifies and treats these queries per Resource Group. Depending on need, long running queries may be terminated or throttled, and the queries can be identified by exact SQL text or their plan digests, for better generalization. In v7.4, TiDB allows operators to proactively watch for known bad queries, similar to a SQL blocklist at the database level.</td>
```
@hfxsd @songrijie PTAL

Reviewer: LGTM

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL</td>

>     <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
>     <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
```
@songrijie PTAL

Reviewer: LGTM

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a> {/* tw@qiancai */}</td>
>     <td>Prior to v7.2, file system level (backdoor) importing was done with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a>. The same functionality is now incorporated into TiDB server nodes and is operated by the SQL interface using the IMPORT INTO command. This feature also uses the new distributed execution framework and global sort feature, which speeds it up and allows for more stability during very large imports (i.e., 100TB tables).</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a> {/* tw@qiancai */}</td>
    <td>Prior to v7.2, file system level (backdoor) importing was done with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a>. The same functionality is now incorporated into TiDB server nodes and is operated by the SQL interface using the IMPORT INTO command. This feature also uses the new distributed execution framework and global sort feature, which speeds it up and allows for more stability during very large imports (i.e., 100TB tables).</td>
```
@qiancai @Frank945946 PTAL

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements (experimental) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
>     <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute <code>IMPORT INTO</code> or <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>Specify<a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/system-variables#tidb_service_scope-new-in-v740" target="_blank"> the respective TiDB nodes</a> to execute the <code>IMPORT INTO</code> and <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements (experimental) {/* tw@hfxsd */}</td>
    <td>You have the flexibility to specify whether to execute <code>IMPORT INTO</code> or <code>ADD INDEX</code> SQL statements on some of the existing TiDB nodes or newly added TiDB nodes. This approach enables resource isolation from the rest of the TiDB nodes, preventing any impact on business operations while ensuring optimal performance for executing the preceding SQL statements.</td>
```
@hfxsd @Frank945946 PTAL

  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
>     <td>Adding indexes can be big resource consumers and can affect online traffic. Even when throttled in a Resource Group or isolated to labeled nodes, there may still be a need to suspend these jobs in emergencies. As of v7.2, TiDB now natively supports suspending any number of these background jobs at once, freeing up needed resources while avoiding have to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>DDL supports <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/ddl-introduction#ddl-related-commands">pause and resume operations</a> {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
    <td>Adding indexes can be big resource consumers and can affect online traffic. Even when throttled in a Resource Group or isolated to labeled nodes, there may still be a need to suspend these jobs in emergencies. As of v7.2, TiDB now natively supports suspending any number of these background jobs at once, freeing up needed resources while avoiding have to cancel and restart the jobs.</td>
```
@ran-huang @Frank945946 PTAL

Reviewer 3: Edited

    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-相关的命令介绍).

* BR supports backing up and restoring statistics [#48008](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/48008) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) <!--**tw@hfxsd** 1437-->

    Starting from TiDB v7.5.0, the `br` command-line tool introduces the `--ignore-stats` parameter to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. In this case, you do not need to manually run the statistics collection task for the TiDB database restored from the backup, or wait for the completion of the automatic collection task. This feature simplifies the database maintenance work and improves the query performance.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics).

### Observability

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### Security

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### Data migration

> * "IMPORT INTO" SQL 语句成为正式功能（GA） [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)<!--**tw@qiancai** 1579-->
> 
>     从 v7.4.0 起，你可以通过在 IMPORT INTO 的 CLOUD_STORAGE_URI 选项中指定编码后数据的云存储地址，开启[全局排序功能](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/tidb-global-sort.md)，提升性能和稳定性，该功能在 7.5 版本成为正式功能（GA）。
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Support the `IMPORT INTO` SQL statement statement (GA)  [#46704](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/46704) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)<!--**tw@qiancai** 1579-->

   In v7.5.0, the `IMPORT INTO` SQL statement statement becomes generally available (GA). `IMPORT INTO` integrates the [Physical Import Mode](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode.md) capability of TiDB Lightning. With this statement, you can quickly import data in formats such as CSV, SQL, and PARQUET into an empty table in TiDB. This import method eliminates the need for a separate deployment and management of TiDB Lightning, thereby reducing the complexity of data import and greatly improving import efficiency.

  In addition, you can add the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option in the `IMPORT INTO` statement to enable the [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) feature, which helps boost import performance and stability. In the `CLOUD_STORAGE_URI` option, you can specify a cloud storage address for the encoded data.

    For more information, see [documentation](https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/blob/master/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md).
```

| TiCDC | [`sink.column-selectors`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the specified columns of data change events that TiCDC sends to Kafka when dispatching incremental data. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.dispatchers.partition`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Modified | Controls how TiCDC dispatches incremental data to Kafka partitions. v7.5.0 introduces a new value option `columns`, which uses the explicitly specified column values to calculate the partition number. |
| TiCDC | [`sql-mode`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the SQL mode used by TiCDC when parsing DDL statements. The default value is the same as the default SQL mode of TiDB. |
|          |          |          |          |

### Others

## Offline package changes

Starting from v7.5.0, the following contents are removed from the `TiDB-community-toolkit` binary package:<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** 1593+1594 -->

- `tikv-importer-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`

> - `mydumper`

Author: ```suggestion
- `mydumper`
- `spark-{version}-any-any.tar.gz`
- `tispark-{version}-any-any.tar.gz`
```

---
title: TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 7.5.0.
---

# TiDB 7.5.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2023

TiDB version: 7.5.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/production-deployment-using-tiup) | [Installation packages](https://www.pingcap.com/download/?version=v7.5.0#version-list)

TiDB 7.5.0 is a Long-Term Support Release (LTS).

> Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 not only includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md), but also introduces the following key features and improvements:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Compared with the previous LTS 7.1.0, 7.5.0 includes new features, improvements, and bug fixes released in [7.2.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.2.0.md), [7.3.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.3.0.md), [7.4.0-DMR](/releases/release-7.4.0.md). The below table is highlights of the releases [7.2-7.5]:
```

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>Support for running multiple <code>ADD INDEX</code> statements in parallel {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
    <td>Different from distributed and parallel DDL jobs, this feature allows for concurrent jobs to run where they were otherwise running syncrhonsously. Where running DDL statements x, y at the same time used to take x-time +y-time, they now take significantly less.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and Availability</td>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> optimization {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> optimization (experimental) {/* tw@ran-huang */}</td>
```

>     <td>Laying the groundwork with the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed framework</a> in v7.2, TiDB introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings.Operations like ADD INDEX and IMPORT INTO will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB v7.2 introduced the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a>. For tasks that take advantage of this framework, v7.4 introduces global sorting to eliminate the unnecessary I/O, CPU, and memory spikes caused from temporarily out of order data during data re-organization tasks. The global sorting will take advantage of external shared object storage (S3 in this first iteration) to store intermediary files during the job, adding flexibility and cost savings.Operations like ADD INDEX and IMPORT INTO will be faster, more resilient, more stable, more flexible, and cost less to run.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL</td>
    <td>MySQL 8.0 compatibility {/* tw@Oreoxmt */}</td>
    <td>In MySQL 8.0, the default characterset is utf8mb4, and the default collation of utf8mb4 is <code>utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci</code>. TiDB v7.4.0 adding support for this enhances compatibility with MySQL 8.0 so that migrations and replications from MySQL 8.0 databases with the default collation are now much smoother.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>
    <td>TiDB Lightning's physical import mode integrated into TiDB with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/sql-statement-import-into">IMPORT INTO</a> {/* tw@qiancai */}</td>

>     <td>Prior to v7.2, file system level (backdoor) importing was done with <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a>. The same functionality is now incorporated into TiDB server nodes and is operated by the SQL interface using the IMPORT INTO command. This feature also uses the new distributed execution framework and global sort feature, which speeds it up and allows for more stability during very large imports.</td>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <td>Before v7.2, to import data based on the file system, you need to install <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-lightning-overview">TiDB Lightning</a> and use its physical import mode. Now, the same functionality is integrated into the `IMPORT INTO` statement so you can use this statement to quickly import data without installing any additional tool. This statement also supports the new <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-distributed-execution-framework" target="_blank">distributed execution framework</a> and <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v7.5/tidb-global-sort" target="_blank">Global sort</a> feature, which improves import efficiency and provides greater stability during large-scale imports.</td>
```

Reviewer 4: @Frank945946 @samhld PTAL

Reviewer 5: LGTM

Reviewer 7: LGTM

    For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-global-sort.md).

* Improve the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement [#41602](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41602) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1582-->

    Before v7.5.0, when you add multiple indexes (`ADD INDEX`) in a single SQL statement, the performance was similar to adding multiple indexes using separate SQL statements. Starting from v7.5.0, the performance of adding multiple indexes in a single SQL statement is significantly improved, improving XX, which greatly reduces the time required for adding indexes.

### Reliability

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### Availability

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### SQL

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

### DB operations

> * DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (GA) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (GA) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm) <!--**tw@ran-huang** 1611-->
```

> * DDL 任务支持暂停和恢复操作成为正式功能 (GA) [#issue](issue链接) @[contributor](https://github.com/xxx)
> 
>     在 v7.2.0 中引入的 DDL 任务的暂停和恢复功能成为正式功能 (GA)。该功能允许临时暂停资源密集型的 DDL 操作（如创建索引），以节省资源并最小化对在线流量的影响。当资源允许时，你可以无缝恢复 DDL 任务，而无需取消和重新开始。DDL 任务的暂停和恢复功能提高了资源利用率，改善了用户体验，并简化了 schema 变更过程。
> 
>     你可以通过如下 `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` 或 `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS` 语句暂停或者恢复多个 DDL 任务：
> 
>     ```sql
>     ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
>     ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
>     ```
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-相关的命令介绍).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* DDL jobs support pause and resume operations (GA) [#18015](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/18015) @[godouxm](https://github.com/godouxm)

    The pause and resume operations for DDL jobs introduced in v7.2.0 become generally available (GA). These operations let you pause resource-intensive DDL jobs (such as creating indexes) to save resources and minimize the impact on online traffic. When resources permit, you can seamlessly resume DDL jobs without canceling and restarting them. This feature improves resource utilization, enhances user experience, and simplifies the schema change process.

    You can pause and resume multiple DDL jobs using `ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS` or `ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS`:

    ```sql
    ADMIN PAUSE DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ADMIN RESUME DDL JOBS 1,2;
    ```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-related-commands).
```

| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| BR | [`--ignore-stats`](/br/br-snapshot-manual.md#back-up-statistics) | Newly added | Controls whether to back up and restore database statistics. When you set this parameter to `false`, the `br` command-line tool supports backing up and restoring statistics of columns, indexes, and tables. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.column-selectors`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Controls the specified columns of data change events that TiCDC sends to Kafka when dispatching incremental data. |
| TiCDC | [`sink.dispatchers.partition`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Modified | Controls how TiCDC dispatches incremental data to Kafka partitions. v7.5.0 introduces a new value option `columns`, which uses the explicitly specified column values to calculate the partition number. |
| TiCDC | [`sql-mode`](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md) | Newly added | Specifies the SQL mode used by TiCDC when parsing DDL statements. The default value is the same as the default SQL mode of TiDB. |
|          |          |          |          |

### Others

## Offline package changes

> Starting from v7.5.0, the following contents are removed from the `TiDB-community-toolkit` binary package:<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** 1593+1594 -->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting from v7.5.0, the following contents are removed from the `TiDB-community-toolkit` [binary package](/binary-package.md):<!--**tw@Oreoxmt** 1593+1594 -->
```
